Are right here we go for the final step making a method that builds two batches of inputs and Target.
We're going to have 10 inputs and the first batch of input and 10 targets in the second batch after
I get and we'll create these two batches by extracting 10 transitions from the memory.
Let's do this let's start.
It's going to be a pretty long method so we'll tackle this in several steps.
All right.
So first of all we have to define this new method and we're going to call it get the patch all right
because this will get us a badge and we'll actually return these two batches of inputs and toilets.
OK so get that method taking three arguments.
The first one's self of course for all the variables of the object.
Then the second one.
Well it's going to take our model because indeed in this get better method Well you know we'll have
to get inputs in the target.
But to get to target we'll have to get the predictions first and then we can see here the predictions
of the next date by the model and therefore we will need the model to get these predictions.
And so to get that model Well we'll put it in the arguments here to the get method and then final argument
it's going to be well the batch size.
So here in the code sections I am saying that we are indeed creating two batches of ten inputs and then
target.
But actually this 10 here is optional.
You could create batches of different sizes and this size we will input it here so we can have the option
of creating batches of different size but as default for this batch size we're going to give 10.
All right so here we go.
We are ready to implement that method.
All right so what do we have to start with.
Well we're going to start by getting the length of the memory.
So here I'm introducing this new Voivode lend memory which will be very simply the length given by the
len function of the memory which is our variable self that memory.
OK.
So we have the length of the memory and we introduce that portable because of course we will need that
later then we are going to need the number of inputs and also the number of outputs.
So of course the number of inputs is three.
You know the number of elements in our input state vectors and the number of output is 5.
The number of actions in the output layer.
Let's get these two elements but I know it's tempting to write 3 and 5 but we want to make this implementation
work for any input vector dimension and the output dimension.
So we will have to get these values another way and for the number of input it's going to be quite tricky.
We're going to get that by the memory because indeed since each element of the memory contains the transition
and game over.
And since the transition contains the current state the action played the reward and the next day.
Well we're going to get either the current state or the next date and we'll take the diamond ssion of
that state.
That's the way we can get the number of inputs by making sure we generalize everything.
So let's get a number of inputs first.
As we said we're going to get that from our memory and now please focus because I'm going to do quite
a tricky thing first I'm going to get any element of the memory and I'm going to get the first one.
And so here where I've just got is exactly this a list of two elements.
The first element being the transition and the second element being game over.
And now since I want to get the transition because then I want to get the state while I'm going to get
the first element of that list of two elements and to get the first element I'm going to get the first
index of that list of two elements which is the index 0.
So that gives me the transition but then remember that the transition is a list of four elements.
The first one being the current state.
The second one the action played the third one the reward received.
And the fourth one the next date.
And so here since I want to get the number of inputs that is the number of elements in a state.
I can just take the first element of that transition which again has the index 0 and that will give
me that state.
And now finally to get that number of elements in the state well remember since the state is a matrix
you know we created our state with this matrix function by name by.
Well the trick to get that number of elements in the state is just add here.
Shape of index one because this is indeed an attribute of this matrix structure that we created for
the state.
And the second element of this attribute is exactly this number of inputs that we need right now.
OK.
So now you know everything.
And now let's get the number of outputs saying we need to figure out a way to get that so that we generalize
everything and that directly input 5.
And to get that well this time let's use the model.
It's going to be more simple because indeed remember that tomorrow contains no thanks to this awesome
blush that we did the output layer and the output layer contains exactly this output vector of q values.
So by getting the output layer of the model Well we'll be able to get the number of actions because
the number of actions is exactly the number of elements in this output vector.
So I'm going back to my dequeue an implementation that I'm going to get my model which is a no argument
to get better method.
And from this model I'm going to get another attribute which is all defined in the Keres API and which
is this time output shape just like that.
And so output shape will give us some informations of the outputs of the model that is this output layer
containing the q values.
But to get what we want there is a number of elements in this output where we have to take the last
column of this output shape structure and minus one is exactly that index of the last element.
All right so good.
We have a number of inputs and the number of outputs and so now we are ready to initialize our two batches.
First the batch of input and second the batch of targets.
So let's start with the batch of inputs which I'm going to curl here and put.
So I'm just introducing this new variable input which will be this first batch of 10 inputs.
And so how are you going to initialize this.
Well these batches are basically going to be an array of 10 rows and three columns.
So each row will respond to a specific input state.
Each row will be the input state and the three columns are going to be of course the three elements
of the state.
So the first column is going to be remember the number of users.
Then the second column is going to be the rate of data transmission and the third column is going to
be the temperature of the server when we have the AI.
You know that's the three elements of our input states.
And so to create this array structure of 10 rows and three columns.
Well we're going to do that with non-pay because with NUMP we can create some what we call non-Thai
arrays which are basically some arrays of whatever number of rows and number of columns.
But since now we are just initializing everything well so far we're just going to initialize everything
with zeros and Dittrich to initialize a full array with zeros.
It's just to use the zero's function.
And that inside is a function that will specify the dimensions you want that is the 10 rows for the
10 input states and the three columns for the three elements of each state.
So let's start with number of rows number of rows is going to be the batch size because we want to have
10 inputs that is 10 rows in this batch of inputs.
But let's be careful.
That's why I specified here remember that we are going to create our two batches of 10 important targets
by extracting 10 transitions from the memory.
But imagine the memory doesn't have yet 10 transitions.
Well in that case I will just add all the transitions of the memory that is you know for example the
memory has six transitions.
Well we will extract six input state from the memory.
And so instead of putting here batch size Well we have to take actually the minimum of the batch size
and the length of the memory which we already introduced as a variable right here and memory was the
length of our memory object.
Okay perfect.
So that be careful for the number of rows of this batch of input we're creating.
But then for the second element we have to specify the number of columns of our batch of input.
And as we said these Kurzban to the three elements of our input state and good news.
We already got that.
That's where we needed to get this number of inputs here.
So I'm going to get it because that's exactly the second element that is the number of columns.
But now be careful with something this element of these two informations containing the number of rows
and the number of columns is actually the first element of this zero's function.
And that's the only argument we need to end with here.
There is this couple of two elements.
The number of rows and the number of columns in our batch of inputs.
All right perfect.
We took care of the inputs and now let's stay here of the targets.
The second batch that we have to create and so I'm going to introduce a new arrival here called targets.
That's how I choose to call it.
And same just as what we did here with the batch of inputs.
Well we were going to create that batch of targets with the same number of rows because we want to have
the same number of rows in the batch of target as in the batch of inputs.
And so while we will of course keep the same because that's exactly the same number of rows as in here.
But now for the number of columns that's where things change in this specific array of the time yet
because now we're not going to have three columns that corresponded before to the three elements of
the input states.
But of course we're going to have five columns corresponding to the number of actions because I remind
that we'll have a target for each of the action and if we go too deep you're an algorithm to target
that you see here is for the action that will be selected.
You know in each of the transitions in the bet be well we have the action because the transition is
composed of the current state the action played the word received and the next date.
And so this target here this formula the target will of course correspond to the action played.
But still we are going to make the target array that will contain 10 rows because that's our bet size.
And then five columns and then in the five columns you will see in the end we'll get this formula here.
The target for the action that was played and just the predictions for the other actions you know the
other actions that were not selected at that specific transition of the batch.
All right so we have to create a batch of targets of 10 rows and five columns and therefore here I'm
going to place a number of inputs by the number of outputs which we already got right here.
Perfect.
So now we initialized our batch of inputs and batch of targets and the next step is going to be to populate
these batches of inputs and toilet's because that's exactly what is going to return this get better
method.
So we're going to do that in next tutorial because we're going to have to make it big for loop.
So let's take a break.
Let's get an energy and we'll smash this and the next toile.
Until then enjoy AI.